---
layout: post
title: "Requiem 5.3.0 “Around the Fire” has been released"
author: ProbablyManuel
---
Hi Requiem enthusiasts,

Requiem 5.3.0 “Around the Fire” has been released. It features new armors and weapons as replacement for the assets that were removed prior to the SSE port due to quality and lore concerns. Additionally, this release marks the first step at integrating the Creation Club DLCs into Requiem. For the full list of changes, please refer to the [changelog]({{site.github.repository_url}}/blob/main/components/documentation/src/Changelog.md#requiem-530---around-the-fire).

The release has taken longer than originally announced. Aside from a bit turbulent summer for me personally, the longer development time is the result of expanding the release scope in two areas.

First, after thoughtful consideration I decided to begin integrating Creation Club DLCs into Requiem. In particular, the new armors in this release use assets from the Creation Club instead of mods from the Nexus. I will discuss this in more detail below, but to get this out of the way now: **Requiem will not require any paid Creation Club DLCs**. Integration of the Creation Club DLCs is offered in an optional patch that can be selected in the fomod installer.

Second, when drafting the integration of the new armors and weapons I faced an obstacle in defining what materials crafting and tempering recipes should use, and to which leveled lists and with which spawn probabilities items should be added because even existing items do not follow any apparent rules. What's more, many of the tasks required to implement new items and tweak existing ones are tedious and error prone. Therefore, I realized it is worth taking the time to automate some of these workflows by writing handy xEdit scripts. The resulting scripts are published and documented on [GitHub]({{site.github.repository_url}}/tree/main/tools/xEdit%20Scripts#readme). The biggest improvement is that all armor and weapon stats and recipes and the most commonly used leveled lists are procedurally generated instead of relying on manual edits. This enabled a swift integration of the novel items afterwards and greatly reduces future development efforts. But the arguably more valuable result is that an automated workflow eliminates human error inherent to repetitive manual tasks.

# GitHub

Alongside this release, the repository has been published on [GitHub]({{site.github.repository_url}}) and the documentation has been moved to the [GitHub Wiki]({{site.github.repository_url}}/wiki). (The blog post you are reading right now is hosted via GitHub too.) The old Confluence pages and the JIRA issue tracker will be discontinued.

I am now using the issue tracker on GitHub for development. However, I'd prefer if you continue reporting bugs on the Nexus or Discord and I will add the bug to an appropriate place in the issue tracker. Having a separate issue/pull request for every minor bug represents a lot of overhead because plugins are not text files and therefore do not play well with a version control system. And to those who are about to peruse the issue tracker: Please do not equate the issue tracker with a priority list. A lot of it is just backlog that is not scheduled to be worked on soon and the described expected outcome may undergo revisions before being added to an upcoming release.

# New armors

Four new light armors are added to the game using assets from the Creation Club and [Chainmail Armor](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/27340) by NordWarUA.

* Chainmail
* Dwarven Light
* Orcish Light
* Netch Leather

They each have a unique material bonus and therefore greatly increase the variety of mid-level light armors. The armors can be crafted with the respective material perk, and they are integrated into the world through loot and merchants.

The remaining armors from the Creation Club are used to enhance visual storytelling. All NPCs who used to wear a custom armor in older versions of Requiem and many others who represent a prominent position or faction now boast a unique armor.

[This document]({{site.github.repository_url}}/blob/main/tools/Notes/Creation%20Club.pdf) describes the integration and most related armor tweaks in more detail.

# New weapons

Six new weapon types are added to the game.

* Tanto
* Wakizashi
* Katana
* Dai-Katana
* Shortsword
* Quarterstaff

The Akaviri-style weapons use assets from [Katana Crafting](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/5306) by lautasantenni. You can obtain them either through crafting or by finding the unique copy in the world. The weapons have the same stats as the corresponding standard blade. Currently, they primarily exist to provide aesthetic variety and to revive items present in previous Elder Scrolls games. In the future, Akaviri-style weapons may be differentiated from Tamrielic weapons by dedicated boons from certain blessings or similar sources.

The shortswords and quarterstaffs use assets from [Heavy Armory](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/6308) by PrivateEye. They can be crafted with the respective material perk, and they are integrated into the world through loot and merchants.
Shortswords have less damage, weight, and stagger than normal swords, but they swing noticeably faster. Enemy marksmen will often carry a shortsword as their melee backup weapon. Shortswords are also interesting to enchanters because they connect more frequently with the target.
Quarterstaffs fulfill the same role as the existing battlestaffs, but unlike battlestaffs they are available in all materials and their models are clearly designed for combat rather than magic. I plan to remove the battlestaffs at some point and use the Dragonborn DLC crafting system (or a similar concept that is not restricted to Solstheim) for enchanted staffs instead. However, I decided to postpone this endeavor and keep the battlestaffs as a minor variant of quarterstaffs for the time-being.

Furthermore, a few more weapons from Heavy Armory are included to complement the world. Most notably, silver weapons are available in all weapon types.

# Creation Club

You may be wondering about my reasons to integrate Creation Club DLCs into Requiem after I announced in the [Roadmap to Requiem 6.0.0]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2022-05-12-Developer-Diary-14 %}) that I do not plan to provide official support. 

Despite skepticism towards the Creation Club from some parts of the community (including me), the Anniversary Edition upgrade is quite successfully. Based on the load orders I see from support requests, which is the closest I have to empirical data on Requiem users, the majority of players who are using the latest version of Skyrim also have all Creation Club DLCs installed, i.e., all 74 DLCs and not just the 4 freebies. The Creation Club offers more than 20 armor DLCs and while the integration and balance of the new armors is often questionable, the quality of the assets themselves matches or exceeds the base game. This aligns very well with the specification that new assets should not include custom textures to ensure Requiem is agnostic towards the user's graphical setup and to keep the download size small (and to avoid unsolicited Jägermeister advertisements). Therefore, I decided the best course of action is to seize the opportunity and commit to the Creation Club with this release.

To achieve a seamless integration of the Creation Club content I will not shy away from making sweeping changes to the default integration and repurpose the assets for Requiem's purposes. For the armor DLCs covered by this release this entailed fully disabling the vanilla integration quests because most of them are ridiculously unbalanced (e.g., dragonscale armor guarded by a lousy skeleton). While some of the quests are alright, they are all part of a larger narrative and partial edits require significantly more effort than outright removal and offer little return.

Requiem will not require any paid Creation Club DLCs. Integration of the Creation Club DLCs is offered in an optional patch that can be select in the fomod installer. Having said this, the optional patch will be considered the default installation. If the technical limitations of maintaining a modular installation entail a suboptimal outcome for one of the versions, the Creation Club version will be favored. More specifically, the best solution to keep the armor implementation maintainable was to define and distribute all new armors in `Requiem.esp` and then the optional patch only redirects the armor models to the Creation Club file paths. This means without the optional patch you will still encounter all new armors in the game, but they share their appearance with the most closely related vanilla model.
