---
layout: post
title: "Requiem 5.0.2 “From the Ashes” Bugfix Pack #2 has been released"
author: Ogerboss
---
Hi guys and gals,

It’s time for another small Requiem update. In this update we’ve fixed the remaining common pain points with the new Reqtificator and also alleviated the burdens of all the heavy armor wearers out there.

Here’s a short summary of the most important changes:

* We realized that Skyrim has an innate running speed penalty based on the weight of your worn weight. (Seems to be a rather unknown feature as its effect doesn’t show up in your `speedmult` values.) This mechanics has been disabled in favor of Requiem’s existing mass effect implementation. Especially heavy armor wearing characters will feel a bit less burdened now.
* The Reqtificator will no longer freeze on save. In case the generated patch cannot be saved, it’ll now fail gracefully with an error message and some useful logs you can share with us.
* The root cause for the “`Requiem for the Indifferent.esp` is missing” ingame error message has been found and addressed. It turned out that Skyrim Special Edition is more lenient when it comes to missing masters than Skyrim Legendary Edition. Instead of crashing on start, SSE simply doesn’t load plugins with missing masters. The Reqtificator didn’t have a load order sanity check in the previous version which made it possible to generate a patch with missing masters.

More changes can be found in the [changelog]({{site.github.repository_url}}/blob/main/components/documentation/src/Changelog.md#requiem-502---from-the-ashes-bugfix-pack-2) as usual. 

We’d also like the use the opportunity to thank the community for the high-quality support. Many of the bug reports have been of good quality and many people helped us identifying the root causes of these problems faster by making experiments on their setups and testing experimental Reqtificator builds.

\- The Requiem Dungeon Masters
